POLARITY

To prepare for plotting beach ball, incl. the observed polarities.

1. Provide SOURCE.DAT (copy from directory SOURSTAT)
and specify the hypocentre depth. See also REMARK below.
Note that source cannot be in the lower halfspace of the
following CRUSTAL.DAT model. The source must be in some
of the layers overlying the halfspace. By the 'halfspace' 
we mean the last, bottom part of the model. 

2. Provide STATION.DAT (copy from directory SOURSTAT),
make sure that the last column has observed polarities
to be plotted on beachball. Allowed symbols are +,- and ?. 

3. Provide CRUSTAL.DAT (copy from directory GREEN).
If the earthquake is in the crust, the last discontinuity 
of the model should be Moho. It will help to detect Pn waves
in MYPOL.DAT below.
If the earthquake is below Moho, the last true discontinuity
must be again Moho, but the user must provide
this file with just one more 'formal discontinuity'  
deeper than the source. By 'formal discontinuity' we mean such 
that it has the same velocities above and below, so,
in other words, it has no velocity jump.
This modification is necessary to fulfil the above
requirement of the SOURCE.DAT file that the source is never
in the halfspace.

4. Run ANGM.BAT. It creates MYPOL.DAT and SYMBO.DAT.
File MYPOL.DAT contains (besides other) azimuths and
take-off angles. SYMBO.DAT is auxiliary file (in graph
coordinates) good to plot the station codes and polarities
on the focal sphere.
Warning: If program fails, possible reason can be 
that source depth coincides with the depth of some
crustal discontinuity. Try to increase or decrease
the source depth (in SOURCE.DAT) by 0.1 km.

MYPOL.DAT structure
station code, azimuth (deg), take-off angle (deg), polarity,
epicentral distance (km), first arrival time (sec) and the Moho depth.
The last item, i.e. the Moho depth, appears only as indication of the
stations at which the first arrival is Pn wave.

5. Provide ONEMECH.DAT and MOREMECH.DAT 
Structure:
three numbers (unimportant for this application),
followed by strike, dip, rake
While ONEMECH.DAT has just one such line, MOREMECH.DAT has
an arbitrary number of analogous lines.
As a rule, INV2.DAT (directory INVERT) is used or modified
to get these files. 

6. Run BALL.BAT. Using NODAL.EXE, this batch converts
ONEMECH.DAT and MOREMECH.DAT
into files NODOPT.DAT and NODALL,DAT. They represent
nodal lines (in graph coordinates) to be plotted 
on the focal sphere together with SYMBO.DAT. 
Sample plot is in 1BALL.DOC.


REMARK:
In all the package, the epicenter position has no other
meaning than the origin of the Cartesian coordinate system. 
All sources and stations are defined with respect to that system.
Doesn't matter how precise the hypocenter is, the waveform
inversion seeks the source position represented by the main
slip contribution (centroid), not necessarily near the hypocenter.
The only exception is the POLARITY directory.

Here, in the POLARITY directory, we consider a focal sphere
centered at the hypocentre (!), not centroid. The SOURCE.DAT and 
STATION.DAT must repsect this assumption. The two files must be 
prepared (in directory SOURSTAT) with as precise hypocenter estimate
as possible. Changing SOURCE.DAT and STATION.DAT for the polarity
plotting does not imply a need to change them for the use in
the other directories.   